Praise be to Allah
This is the Scripture whereof there is no doubt, a guidance unto those who ward off (evil)
Allah hath sealed their hearing and their hearts, and on their eyes there is a covering. Theirs will be an awful doom
They think to beguile Allah and those who believe, and they beguile none save themselves; but they perceive not
And when it is said unto them: Make not mischief in the earth, they say: We are peacemakers only
Deaf, dumb, and blind, they will not return (to the path)
Allah encompasseth the disbelievers
For Allah hath power over all things
How can ye reject the faith in Allah? seeing that ye were without life, and He gave you life; then will He cause you to die, and will again bring you to life; and again to Him will ye return
And He is knower of all things
Surely I know that which ye know not
Lo! He is the relenting, the Merciful
And cover not Truth with falsehood, nor conceal the Truth when ye know (what it is)
And be steadfast in prayer; practise regular charity; and bow down your heads with those who bow down (in worship)
Enjoin ye righteousness upon mankind while ye yourselves forget (to practise it)? And ye are readers of the Scripture! Have ye then no sense?
Seek help in patience and prayer; and truly it is hard save for the humble-minded
Allah is not unaware of what ye do
And they say: "The Fire shall not touch us but for a few numbered days:" Say: "Have ye taken a promise from Allah, for He never breaks His promise? or is it that ye say of Allah what ye do not know?"
And those who believe and do good works: such are rightful owners of the Garden. They will abide therein
Treat with kindness your parents
treat with kindness your parents and kindred, and orphans and those in need
And speak kindly to mankind
Then is it only a part of the Book that ye believe in, and do ye reject the rest?
Such are those who buy the life of the world at the price of the Hereafter
The curse of Allah is on disbelievers
Evil is that for which they sell their souls
They said: we hear and we rebel
But they injure thereby no-one save by Allah's leave
But Allah chooseth for His mercy whom He will
And ye have not, beside Allah, any guardian or helper?
He who chooseth disbelief instead of faith, verily he hath gone astray from a plain road
And whatever good ye send forth for your souls before you, ye shall find it with Allah
Lo! Allah is Seer of what ye do
Nay, but whosoever surrendereth his purpose to Allah while doing good, his reward is with his Lord; and there shall no fear come upon them neither shall they grieve
Allah will judge between them on the Day of Resurrection concerning that wherein they differ
To Allah belong the East and the West: Whithersoever ye turn, there is the presence of Allah
But whatsoever is in the heavens and the earth is His. All are subservient unto Him
All are subservient unto Him
The Originator of the heavens and the earth!
When He decreeth a thing, He saith unto it only: Be! and it is
We have indeed made clear the Signs unto any people who hold firmly to Faith
Verily We have sent thee in truth as a bearer of glad tidings and a warner
And the Jews will not be pleased with thee, nor will the Christians, till thou follow their creed
Our Lord! Accept (this service) from us: For Thou art the All-Hearing, the All-knowing
Lo! Thou, only Thou, art the Relenting, the Merciful
Lo! Allah hath chosen for you the (true) religion; therefore die not save as men who have surrendered (unto Him)
And He is the All-Hearing, the All-Knowing
(We take our) colour from Allah, and who is better than Allah at colouring
That we are responsible for our doings and ye for yours; and that We are sincere (in our faith) in Him
He guideth whom He will unto a straight path
Thus We have appointed you a middle nation, that ye may be witnesses against mankind
Those unto whom We gave the Scripture recognise (this revelation) as they recognise their sons. But lo! a party of them knowingly conceal the truth
Then strive together (as in a race) Towards all that is good
Therefore remember Me, I will remember you. Give thanks to Me, and reject not Me
For Allah is with those who patiently persevere
And call not those who are slain in the way of Allah "dead." Nay, they are living, only ye perceive not
Be sure we shall test you with something of fear and hunger, some loss in goods or lives or the fruits (of your toil), but give glad tidings to those who patiently persevere
Who say, when a misfortune striketh them: Lo! we are Allah's and lo! unto Him we are returning
And your Allah is One Allah: There is no god but He, Most Gracious, Most Merciful
But those of Faith are overflowing in their love for Allah
Thus will Allah show them (The fruits of) their deeds as (nothing but) regrets
O ye people! Eat of what is on earth, Lawful and good
And follow not the footsteps of the devil. Lo! he is an open enemy for you
Lo! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful
Lo! Allah is All-Hearing, the All-knowing
The month of Ramadan in which was revealed the Qur'an, a guidance for mankind, and clear proofs of the guidance, and the Criterion (of right and wrong)
Allah desireth for you ease; He desireth not hardship for you
I answer the prayer of the suppliant when he crieth unto Me
Thus Allah expoundeth His revelation to mankind that they may ward off (evil)
And fear Allah: That ye may prosper
Fight in the cause of Allah those who fight you, but do not transgress limits
for Allah loveth not transgressors
For tumult and oppression are worse than slaughter
Spend your wealth for the cause of Allah
And do good; for Allah loveth those who do good
And fear Allah, and know that Allah Is strict in punishment
There are men who say: "Our Lord! Give us (Thy bounties) in this world!" but they will have no portion in the Hereafter
Our Lord! Give us good in this world and good in the Hereafter, and defend us from the torment of the Fire!
Allah is swift at reckoning
Then fear Allah, and know that ye will surely be gathered unto Him
And Allah is full of kindness to (His) devotees
All cases go back to Allah (for judgment)
Beautified is the life of the world for those who disbelieve
For Allah bestows His abundance without measure on whom He will
Allah guideth whom He will unto a straight path
Ah! Verily, the help of Allah is (always) near!
But it may happen that ye hate a thing which is good for you, and it may happen that ye love a thing which is bad for you
They ask thee how much they are to spend; Say: "What is beyond your needs."
But Allah knows the man who means mischief from the man who means good
Allah is Mighty, Wise
And expoundeth His revelations to mankind that haply they may remember
For whoso transgresseth Allah's limits: such are wrong-doers
No soul shall have a burden laid on it greater than it can bear
Be guardians of your prayers, and of the midmost prayer, and stand up with devotion to Allah
Be guardians of your prayers, and of the midmost prayer, and stand up with devotion to Allah
For Allah is full of bounty to mankind, but Most of them are ungrateful
Who is he that will loan to Allah a beautiful loan, which Allah will double unto his credit and multiply many times?
It is Allah that giveth (you) Want or plenty, and to Him shall be your return
Allah bestoweth His Sovereignty on whom He will
How oft, by Allah's will, Hath a small force vanquished a big one? Allah is with those who steadfastly persevere
Our Lord! Pour out constancy on us and make our steps firm: Help us against those that reject faith
And did not Allah Check one set of people by means of another, the earth would indeed be full of mischief
But Allah is full of bounty to all the worlds
Unto Him belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth
There is no compulsion in religion
Truth stands out clear from Error
Whoever rejects evil and believes in Allah hath grasped the most trustworthy hand-hold, that never breaks
Allah is the Protecting Guardian of those who believe. He bringeth them out of darkness into light
Of those who reject faith the patrons are the evil ones: from light they will lead them forth into the depths of darkness
And Allah does not give guidance to a people unjust
Allah giveth manifold increase to whom He pleaseth
A kind word with forgiveness is better than almsgiving followed by injury
He granteth wisdom to whom He pleaseth
And he to whom wisdom is granted receiveth indeed a benefit overflowing
But Allah guideth whom He will
Those who (in charity) spend of their goods by night and by day, in secret and in public, have their reward with their Lord: on them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve
He forgiveth whom He pleaseth, and punisheth whom He pleaseth
We hear, and we obey
On no soul doth Allah Place a burden greater than it can bear